---
layout: post
title: Pre-Alpha 1 Complete!
parent: 2020
grand_parent: Development Blog
nav_order: 9962
date: 2020-04-23
---
April 23, 2020
{: .float-right}

# Pre-Alpha 1 Complete!

## Looking Back

Finally done with the first major milestone in Parquet ~~ Pre-Alpha 1!  Hurrah!

I thought I was going to reach this point back at the end of January, but having taken 3 extra months (not counting 3 weeks of vacation travel) is acceptable  ^__^

This feels great~!  Thinking back to the end of 2018 when I first started, it's amazing to see how far I've come in 2 years.

Building a game tool "backwards" like this turned out to be as time-consuming as I expected, but also every bit as educational as I'd hoped!

No on to the next milestone!

## Looking Ahead ~~ Pre-Alpha 2

In Clubhouse I wrote:

    Pre-Alpha 2

    Indicates that a functional subset of the mechanics for all major game systems exist,
    together with tools for game-making.

    Likely unstable. Breaking changes in API will still occur.

    This milestone does not represent Done-Done (i.e. ready to go to players)
    but rather Engineer-Done (i.e. ready to start being messed with and tested).

    I expect everything marked "Done" here will be iterated upon in Alpha and Beta.

## Looking Ahead ~~ Engine Work

I'm currently taking an intro to Godot course as an ongoing exploration of potential engines to use the library in.

There are the engines and frameworks I'm currently considering:

- Godot
- Luxe
- GameMaker Studio 2
- MonoGame
- FNA
- RayLib

I don't want to use Unity because it's too much of a mess right now

What I really want is an engine that:

- Is 2D Only
- Has supports C# as a 1st class citizen
- Can target consoles with reasonable effort

After a year of looking and asking around, I don't believe such a thing exists.
I may end up having to write my own engine and then hope I can secure a reasonable AOT situation (MonoGame and FNA have [Brute](http://brute.rocks/), at least).
Part of me is also tempted to port/rewrite Parquet in C99 to ease console development.

But!  I'm not going to start a port or rewrite until after Parquet hits 1.0, which is likely still years away.
It may well be that by then CoreRT or its successor present another AOT option, or that Unity has settled down and becomes a reasonable choice again.
(Although, I would love to do something other than Unity since so much of my dayjob work is in Unity....)
