---
layout: post
title: Why "Parquet"?
nav_order: 9993
date: 2019-06-27
parent: Parquet Dev Blog
---
June 27, 2019
{: .float-right}

# Why "Parquet"?

## A Library About "Tiles"?

One thing I arrived at pretty quickly when thinking about this project is that the fundamental unit of play in a building game must be the building pieces.

In a 3D game these are often refered to as "blocks", and the way they are rendered is refered to as voxels (even if they do use polygon-based rasterization...).

But what about in a 2D game?

Almost everyone seems to refer to these units as "tiles".  This, I think, is problematic in a couple of ways.

First, it confuses the mechanical gameplay concept with the way it is rendered.  A block is rendered as a voxel . . . a tile is rendered as a tile?

Second, even when considered exclusively in the domain of computer graphics, tile is such an old term that it is used in multiple incompatible ways by different people.

I'd like to get away from both of these ambiguities.
Specifically, when it comes time to code the engine I'd like to be able to write something like:

```var myBlock = WorldArray[col, row];

var myTile = myBlock.GetTile;

Draw(myTile);```

That way, it's immediately obvious which object instances are mechanical entities and which are handles to art assets.

I researched and thought about this for quite a while before finally landing on the term *parquet*.

## What Is A Parquet?

In everyday speech a parquet is a type of flooring composed of wooden blocks arranged geometrically.  Where I live in the United States, it's usually pronounced /pɑːɹˈkeɪ/, i.e. "par-kay".

This concept, of a wooden flooring unit designed to fit tightly together with other such units and form a larger pattern, is a great analogy for the playing piece I'm imagining.

Also, it's both similar to the word "tile" and distinct from it.

Since a parquet is the smallest interactive unit that the system provides, it also makes sense to me to use it as the name of the system.

Of course, nothing's perfect.
In this case, there is already a well established open source project called "Parquet", [a storage format for the Hadoop system](https://parquet.apache.org/).
I beleive that these two uses are so dissimilar that confusion is not likely to occur.
I also suspect that this project's aims are niche enough that users of the other software will likely never hear about it.

Time will tell!
