---
layout: post
title: Command Line Tool Help
nav_order: 9980
date: 2020-01-02
parent: Parquet Dev Blog
---
January 2, 2020
{: .float-right}

# Command Line Tool

## Implementation Help

Mint has generously offered to help implement the command line tool, Roller!

They'll be starting work on it this week.
First step is working through the details of the Roller stories in Clubhouse together.

## What Is Roller?

Something I should address on here at a future point is how I ended up managing game definition storage.

For now, the short version is CSV files.  I considered many other options, but these won out.

Ideally, I'd like most game development tasks to be doable from within any standard spread sheet application.
However, there are some tasks that are much better automated, and others for which a machine is better adapted.

For those classes of tasks, I wanted a simple command line tool.
I named this tool "roller" as that is the name of a [real-world tool](https://www.homedepot.com/b/Flooring-Flooring-Supplies-Flooring-Tools-Floor-Rollers/N-5yc1vZcdtt) used for working with Parquets:
a roller is commonly used to apply parquets to the glue that fixes them to the underfloor, and another kind of roller is used to varnish parquets once they are fixed

Okay, but what does our roller do?

## Tool Description

Roller has the following functions~

- Create blank CSVs in the shape needed by Parquet, to simplify starting a new project.
- Prepare a set of CSVs for use in a Parquet game, by ensuring that they will load properly, assigning any missing IDs, and so forth.
- Check the internal consistency of certain categories of data; for example, check that the world map is well defined with respect to exits and entrances.
- List various useful information about every subtype of Entity that Parquet recognizes.
- Alternatively, list the same information about all Entities defined in the CSVs across type boundaries, in aggregate.
- Look for obvious errors, such as naming collisions.

Here are the categories of Entities and other data types that Roller understands~

- all
- beings
    - critters
    - characters
- biomes
- crafts
- games
    - episodes
- interactions
    - scripts
- items
    - p-items
    - n-items
- pronoun groups
- parquets
    - floors
    - blocks
    - furnishings
    - collectibles
- regions
- rooms

As you can see, with the addition of sets of pronouns, this is every type of Entity that exists in Parquet.
I suppose that's another topic I should cover on here at some point!
