---
layout: post
title: Working Backwards
parent: 2019
grand_parent: Development Blog
nav_order: 9996
date: 2019-01-29
---
January 29, 2019
{: .float-right}

# Working Backwards

So, one of my main goals with this project is to build up my skills.
To achieve this, I am going to try something I haven't done before and normally wouldn't recommend.

Normally, I would develop a game something like this:

1. Prototype / Walking Skeleton
2. Player Feedback
3. Revise, Keep Developing Game
4. Player Feedback
5. Build Tools as Needed
6. Player Feedback
7. Release!
8. Player Feedback
9. Refactor/Abstract into an Engine/Library if the cost is justified.

This time around, I want to do almost the reverse of this:

1. Create a Robust Library
2. Create Needed Tools
3. Create Game Engine
4. Create Prototype Game
5. Player Feedback
6. Finish Game, Release!
7. Player Feedback
8. Create 2nd Game

In a way, this approach feels "wrong" to me.  I expect it to be slow and for mistakes to be expensive.
But, I also feel like I need to do it this way if I am really going to focus on the parts of design and coding that I have th eleast practice with.
I want to focus on API design, sensible implementation, well-documented code, and ensuring that every component contributes to the final concept.

I feel like I can get away with this only because Parquet is both a long term project and a non-commercial one.

Along these lines, I would also like to use parts of the C# stack I don't have much experience with; things like LINQ and reflection!
