---
layout: post
title: Categorizing Parquet Games
parent: 2020
grand_parent: Development Blog
nav_order: 9934
date: 2020-09-19
---
September 19, 2020
{: .float-right}

# Categorizing Parquet Games

## Parquetverse Games

An element of this project that I have not spoken about much publically yet is that I want to ultimately use this library to create a set/series of games.

I've been thinking and reading a lot for years about **what kinds of games I'd like to make on my own**.

I've been lucky enough so far to be able to choose to work primarily on games that *feature and boost marginalized folks*, both "on the screen and behind the scenes".
This is definitely something I want to keep doing.

But I've also worked primarily on other people's games.
Now that I've set out to make my own games, I have the opportunity/burden of decididing exactly what those games should be.

## An Underappreciated Audience

At its earliest, this project began as a design question:  "What would [Dragon Quest Builders](https://dragonquest.square-enix-games.com/builders/us/) play like
if it were constrained to the presentation of [Dragon Quest IV](https://www.woodus.com/den/games/dw4nes/)?"
The reason I ever asked myself this question, however, is a little deeper.

I've spent over a thousand hours each on Dragon Quest Builders, [Dragon Quest Builders 2](https://en.dragonquest-builders.com/), and [Terraria](https://www.terraria.org/).
All three are often described as Minecraft clones,
but once you scratch the surface you can quickly see that *they are not really much like Minecraft*.

For one thing, each of them has a progression of one kind or another.

For another, each one has a degree of village simulation and character interaction.

But perhaps most underappreciated of all, each provides building options that are specifically feminine.
This is true of all three games but is particularly the case for Terraria,
which has a[wealth of mixable/matchable furniture and materials in a plethora of styles](https://terraria.fandom.com/wiki/Furniture_sets).

These functionally interchangeable yet stylistically distinct furnishings and building materials afford players a much greater degree of self expression than unmodded Minecraft does.

For myself, these three items ~~ progression, character simulation, and feminine self expression ~~
explain why these games are much more compelling than other building or simulation games.

One thing that *does not* make these games more compelling is their combat.
In all three games, the combat is fun, and again Terraria's is especially great.
But that's not what I'm there for.

I believe that I am not the only person who is interested in games like this.

**In my own Parquetverse games, my goal is to provide a *narrative adventure* and *feminine self-expression* through *building* as the primary mechanic.**

## Intersecting with the Wider World of Game Dev

There are four distinct movements/niches/communities of game-making that have spoken to me most strongly over the years~~
- 💸 [rentpunk](https://rentpunk.tumblr.com/rentpunk)
- ↩️ [alt games](https://www.blog.radiator.debacle.us/2015/03/altgames-is-no-fault-divorce-that-indie.html)
- 🧸 [cozy games](https://lostgarden.home.blog/2018/01/24/cozy-games/)
- 🌿 [wholesome games](https://wholesomegames.com/)

Of these, the alt, cozy, and wholesome monikers feel most appropriate to my Parquetverse aims.

To paraphrase what others have said summing up these movements:

- **<span style="color:#EED44B">Indie Games</span>** are independently created but may be mainstream, while
- **<span style="color:#01CDFC">Alt Games</span>** are fundamentally not mainstream.

- **<span style="color:#FCA6BE">Wholesome Games</span>**
    - have **<span style="color:#C48AFF">Lower Stakes</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#01CDFC">Less Violent</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#00EDB3">Less Stressful</span>**
    - have **<span style="color:#E13B3B">Positive Themes</span>**
    - provide **<span style="color:#DF7126">Good Representation of Marginalized Folks</span>**
    - have **<span style="color:#FCA6BE">Friendly, Welcoming Aesthetics</span>**

- **<span style="color:#DCAD83">Cozy Games</span>**
    - focus on **<span style="color:#C48AFF">Higher-Level Needs</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#01CDFC">Non-Violent</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#00EDB3">Anti-Capitalist</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#FCA6BE">Soft and Gentle</span>**
    - provide **<span style="color:#FBAE61">Self Expression without Negative Consequence</span>**
    - provide **<span style="color:#FF71CC">Positive Resolution to Conflict</span>**

So, very loosely, 
**<span style="color:#6637A4">Parquetverse</span>** ⊆
**<span style="color:#DCAD83">Cozy Games</span>** ⊆
**<span style="color:#FCA6BE">Wholesome</span>** ⊆
**<span style="color:#01CDFC">Alt</span>** ⊆
**<span style="color:#EED44B">Indie</span>** Games.

(Where "⊆" means "is a subset of".)

## Criticism
    
Of course, Discourse being Discourse, there has been a lot of pushback and criticism of all of these models/movements.
(Except for the Cozy model, perhaps because it hasn't been noticed on social media yet....)

However, as a marginalized person making video games I recognize that the only way my work will avoid similar criticism is to go unnoticed.
So, I don't believe I'm hurting myself by learning from those who've come before me.

## What Parquetverse Games Are

Expanding on this together with my own values, I was able to derive a definitional set of pillars to pursue~~

- **<span style="color:#6637A4">Parquetverse Games</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#C48AFF">Queer & Trans</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#AC276C">Femme</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#FCA6BE">Colorful</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#01CDFC">Nonviolent</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#00EDB3">Anti-Capitalist</span>**
    - are **<span style="color:#00715C">Vegan</span>**
    - provide **<span style="color:#E13B3B">Happy Endings</span>**
    - provide **<span style="color:#DF7126">Expressive, Creative Mechanics</span>**

## Paige's Games ≠ All Parquet Games

It's important to understand that although I have designed Parquet to support the kinds of games I want to make
it is certainly possible that other types of games could be made with this technology.
I'm not sure that will ever happen... but my aspirations don't place restrictions on other people's behavior.

Anyway, all of this is mostly just for my own thinking, but I thought I might as well share! 😁
