---
layout: post
title: Looking at Engines, Again
parent: 2020
grand_parent: Development Blog
nav_order: 9950
date: 2020-06-21
---
June 21, 2020
{: .float-right}

# Looking at Engines, Again

So it's been a minute and I am still on my break from parquet as work is still unusually busy, but I wanted to pop in to talk about engines~~


After my Unreal course finished I took another Godot course, and also spent some time with GameMaker and Luxe, and looked into Love2D, Heaps, and Flixel.

I really like a lot about Godot, I feel like I could grow to love Love2D, Heaps, and Flixel, and Luxe has tons of potential.
However, none of them are what I'm looking for.
(In case you missed the last post on this topic, I also have a lot of experience with Unity and a bit with Unreal, but both of these are way too heavy for Parquet.)

Going back to my list of engine wants identified last year~

- 2D Only
- First class C# support
- Can target consoles with reasonable effort

I believe the closest I'm going to get to these is a framework rather than an engine.

I've spent quite a lot of time in the FNA community due to mutual friends.
And I gotta say, it doesn't feel like the right space for me.

So, it increasingly looks likely that I'll have to either write my own small engine using MonoGame or RayLib's C# bindings....

However, for the moment I've decided to punt this down the road and focus on GUI tools.
Once those are done and the library is more complete I can reevaluate the state of 2D game engines!
