---
layout: post
title: Elevation
parent: 2020
grand_parent: Development Blog
nav_order: 9957
date: 2020-05-07
---
May 7, 2020
{: .float-right}

# Elevation

Parquet is a 2D game library, so the concept of elevation exists only in rudimentary form.

Initially I wanted to use arbitrary exit points, as in ZZT, to allow for freeform movement between regions.
In addition, I had planned to treat empty spaces as a special kind of exit on which items would automatically fall to a designated other region, as in early NES-era Dragon Quests.

However, this proved needlessly complicated.
So, I adopted a simplified approach~
Each region has the following 6 properties:
- Region to the North
- Region to the South
- Region to the East
- Region to the West
- Region Above
- Region Below

The edges of the map would serve as exits to adjacent regions on the same level, while particular parquets could work as exits up or down.

This allows for the following behavior:
- Liquid Blocks that flow onto an empty space in a region that has another region below it will flow down to that lower region automatically.
- Similarly, beings that walk onto an empty space in a region with another region below will fall through to the lower region.
- Finally, a being may use a staircase, ladder, or similar parquet at an arbitrary point in a region that has another region designated Above it in order to climb up.

This is my current plan.

I considered adding the additional adjacencies/directions of Region Inside and Region Outside, but those seem unneccessary.
