---
layout: post
title: Data Definitions~ Nomenclature and Usability
parent: 2020
grand_parent: Parquet Dev Blog
nav_order: 9978
date: 2020-01-09
---
January 9, 2020
{: .float-right}

# Data Definitions~ Nomenclature and Usability

## Nomenclature

Up till now in code I have been saying "Entity" when what I really mean is "Entity Definition" ~~ an Entity in my library models only the part of the game object that does not change.
I am thinking of replacing this with something else, maybe "Model", "Prototype", "EntityDefinition", "Ideal", "Archetype", or something similar to be more clear.
I'm looking for a short phrase since the term is used freakin' everywhere....

So far I like "model" the best as it is both short and clear

## Multidimensionality and Usability when Serialized

The one problem with my "design everything from within spread sheet programs" approach that has emerged so far is that there is no easy way to work with multidimensional arrays of data.

For example, parquets occur on the world map as 3dimensional grids ~~ height and width corresponding to the number of rendered tiles on screen, and depth corresponding to the four types of parquets that can appear together in a stack.

But to my knowledge there is no common way to edit a 3D spreadsheet.

The obvious solution is to employ a dedicated level editor.

It looks like I may be able to write a small Python or JavaScript routine to allow [Tiled](https://doc.mapeditor.org) to import and export maps as single CSVs in a form that Parquet could understand~

- https://doc.mapeditor.org/en/stable/manual/python/
- https://doc.mapeditor.org/en/latest/reference/scripting/

That would be much nicer than having to write an entire GUI.
And it may be easier to use than having to create some kind of protocol for handling native TMX files.
We'll see!
