---
layout: post
title: Beginning a New Long Term Project
parent: 2018
grand_parent: Parquet Dev Blog
nav_order: 9999
date: 2018-11-08
---
November 8, 2018
{: .float-right}

# Beginning a New Long Term Project

## Concept

I've been turning this idea over in my head for some time now, but as of November 2018 design has officially begun.

I'm not sure just yet exactly what the final product will look like, but the impetus was the following question:

    "How would Dragon Quest Builders play
    if it were constrained to the presentation of the original Dragon Quest IV?"

I think I could get close to this same idea by asking a different question:

    "What elements of building games are most important to me as a player?
    Where do I find most of the fun?"

## Motivation

The reason this concept was finally promoted from "interesting theoretical design question" to "project under active development" is because I've been feeling stuck in intermediate programming land for a number of years now.
I've shipped 6 commercial titles and worked professionally on as many more again, and I am well beyond the "Intro to Coding" or "Game Dev 101" resources that cover the web.
However, I'm definitely still not anywhere near the level of 40-Year-Veteran proficiency that a lot of conference content is aimed at.
There is a real derth of content available for devs that are anywhere in the middle of their career.

All of my mentors have given me similar advice: the way to get from intermediate to expert is by working on lots of large projects.
As a freelance indie, contract work comes and goes ~~ not all of it is large projects.
I feel the best way to suppliment these gigs is to start working on a large project of my own.
Not only that, but this could be a great way to start building the kinds of games I want to make, instead of the kinds of games others are willing to pay me for.

I super love builder games; I think there is a lot of unexplored space in this genre; and this is the kind of project I could see myself working on happily for years to come.

## Goals

With all this in mind, I started this project with two goals:

1. To provide a foundation for games developed in C# stacks, since I'm primarily a C# developer;
2. To provide a learning exercise that will help me increase my design, coding, and other skills.

