---
layout: post
title: Deriving Features
parent: 2018
grand_parent: Parquet Dev Blog
nav_order: 9998
date: 2018-12-01
---
December 1, 2018
{: .float-right}

# Deriving Features

## Game Play Analysis

In thinking over the source material and concepts I wanted to work with, I've come up with the following major features that I enjoy in building games:

- The ability to make homes that are tailored to their occupant's tastes, needs, and interests.
  - This implies a degree of aesthetic flexibility which many building games do not provide.  Terraria is a great example of a building game that makes plenty of aesthetic options available without mods.
  - I would characterize this design element as femme (in the queer sense), because it enables self expression through nurturing.
- The ability just mentioned implies the existance of occupants who have tastes, needs, and interests!
  - So, we need interactable NPCs.
  - I'm bored of violence in games, so we will escue combat as a source of conflict.
    - Instead, it may make sense for the player to be engaged primarily in helping to meet NPCs' needs by taking on and completing quests.
- So, we also need a quest system.
- And, a dialogue system.
- The ability to explore a world and gain new insights and new resources from your environment.
  - This is common to nearly all building games, except perhaps for city simulations that assume constant availability of capitalist plunder.
  - The extraction of resources in most games is rather thoughtlessly conceptualized as a form of "fun strip mining/clear cutting".  The environment has value in the designers' minds only as a source of claimable wealth and as a canvas to build on.  I'll have to think carefully and critically to avoid this mistake.
- The ability to craft new materials out of old.
  - This is also a staple of recent building games.  Minecraft is the most obvious, but definitely not the only, example here.

## Game Design Considerations

One detail that makes Parquet different from other projects I have worked on is that it is not a single game, but a system for making games.
For this reason, part of the design stems not from the needs of players but those of developers.

Something I'd like to do in this department is to make editing Parquet content as straightforward as possible.
To that end, I want a dead simple and widely available means of storing and mutating data, perhaps in plain flat text files or something like that.

Similarly, I'd like Parquet games to be relatively easy to mod, and toward that end (and also to ease development generally) it would be good if assets could be hot-swappable.

## Features

After a lot of thinking and discussion with others, I settled on the following major features for the system:

- A peaceful 2D top-down overworld map that may be explored.
- Simple, free-form building mechanics allowing players to create homes in the world.
- Resource collection mechanics allowing players to upgrade their homes and tools.
- A simple crafting system allowing players to unlock new tools and building materials.
- Interactive, noncombatant NPCs.
- A quest system encouraging players to build particular building types.
- Dialogue and narrative delivery.
- Data-driven design with all game models customizable from human-readable files.

I'm not sure yet if a dedicated editor will be needed.  If possible I'd like to avoid building one.
